README.md, before:

# Introduction

Curious about the texting habits of you and your friends? Look no further! Chatty will show you stats on how you communicate with whatever individual you tell it to analyze. Out of the box, Chatty supports iMessage, WhatsApp, and Line. Custom sources and arbitrary text is supported as well.

# Why?

Why not? Texting styles are a hot topic of discussion in my friend group. I wanted quantitative evidence that some of my friends are better texters than others. Kidding. Kind of.

# Preview

Please see the [project notebook](https://github.com/klittlepage/chatty/blob/master/chatty.ipynb) for a full demonstration. Note that GitHub does not render Jupyter notebooks on mobile. If you "Request as Desktop Site" using your mobile broswer, it's still fairly readable.  

# Installation

A working Python 3 [Anaconda](https://anaconda.org/anaconda/python) environment is required. Once Anaconda is installed, run:

```conda env create -f environment.yml```

to install Chatty's dependencies.

# Running

Launch chatty by running:

```
source activate chatty
jupyter notebook
```

Select a source per the instructions below, and re-evaluate all cells.

## External Variables

Chatty includes a utility for reading config from an external yaml file: ```chatty.load_vars(vars_file='vars.yml')```. Use this method for situations where you wish to share your notebook without exposing sensitive variables (e.g. names or telephone numbers).

## Sources

### iMessage

The iMessage source requires an OSX computer with iMessage. Once the notebook loads, redefine ```RECIPIENT_ID``` to either an E.164 number of the form '+13031234567' or an iMessage handle of the form 'foo@bar.com'.

### WhatsApp

The WhatsApp source reads from a WhatsApp chat log exported by the iOS WhatsApp client. It has not been tested against other clients.

```python
from chatty.sources import whatsapp_chat

project_vars = load_vars()
all_messages = whatsapp_chat(project_vars['chat_path'])
from_messages = all_messages[project_vars['from']]
to_messages = all_messages[project_vars['to']]
```

### Line

The line source reads from a Line chat log exported by the iOS Line client. It has not been tested against other clients.

```python
from chatty.sources import line_chat

project_vars = load_vars()
all_messages = line_chat(project_vars['chat_path'])
from_messages = all_messages[project_vars['from']]
to_messages = all_messages[project_vars['to']]
```

# Hacking

All analysis functions are composable and built for reuse. By default, Chatty will analyze messages sent to/from the counter party defined by ```RECIPIENT_ID```. You can change this behavior by redefining ```from_messages``` and ```to_messages``` before the analysis functions are called.

# Todo

* Support other message sources
* Add time series/trend analysis
* PRs welcome

# License

Chatty is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Updated README to include examples

README.md, after:

# Introduction

Curious about the texting habits of you and your friends? Look no further! Chatty will show you stats on how you communicate with whatever individual you tell it to analyze. Out of the box, Chatty supports iMessage, WhatsApp, and Line. Custom sources and arbitrary text is supported as well.

# Why?

Why not? Texting styles are a hot topic of discussion in my friend group. I wanted quantitative evidence that some of my friends are better texters than others. Kidding. Kind of.

# Preview

Please see the [project notebook](https://github.com/klittlepage/chatty/blob/master/chatty.ipynb) for a full demonstration. Note that GitHub does not render Jupyter notebooks on mobile. If you "Request as Desktop Site" using your mobile broswer, it's still fairly readable.

Short of that, two examples (out of the many in the notebook) are a comparison table generated by ```summary_comparison```:

| Metric                                       | From Me   | To Me   |
|----------------------------------------------|-----------|---------|
| Message Count                                | 1,199     | 960     |
| Word Count                                   | 29,686    | 14,243  |
| Avg Message Word Count                       | 24.76     | 14.84   |
| Avg Message Word Count (w/o Stop Words)      | 14.48     | 9.36    |
| Avg Message Character Count                  | 96.38     | 55.48   |
| Avg Message Character Count (w/o Stop Words) | 68.51     | 41.03   |
| Longest Message                              | 208       | 91      |
| Distinct Words                               | 4,345     | 2,631   |
| Distinct Stems                               | 3,438     | 2,229   |
| Distinct English Words                       | 3,773     | 2,248   |
| Distinct Emojis                              | 38        | 32      |
| Emoji Count                                  | 193       | 118     |
| Pct Negative Sentiment                       | 7%        | 4%      |
| Pct Positive Sentiment                       | 18%       | 19%     |

and sentiment analysis carried out and displayed by ```sentiment``` and ```sentiment_plot```:

![Distribution of message sentiments sent and received](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/klittlepage/chatty/master/static/sentiment_dist.png)

# Installation

A working Python 3 [Anaconda](https://anaconda.org/anaconda/python) environment is required. Once Anaconda is installed, run:

```conda env create -f environment.yml```

to install Chatty's dependencies.

# Running

Launch chatty by running:

```
source activate chatty
jupyter notebook
```

Select a source per the instructions below, and re-evaluate all cells.

## External Variables

Chatty includes a utility for reading config from an external yaml file: ```chatty.load_vars(vars_file='vars.yml')```. Use this method for situations where you wish to share your notebook without exposing sensitive variables (e.g. names or telephone numbers).

## Sources

### iMessage

The iMessage source requires an OSX computer with iMessage. Once the notebook loads, redefine ```RECIPIENT_ID``` to either an E.164 number of the form '+13031234567' or an iMessage handle of the form 'foo@bar.com'.

### WhatsApp

The WhatsApp source reads from a WhatsApp chat log exported by the iOS WhatsApp client. It has not been tested against other clients.

```python
from chatty.sources import whatsapp_chat

project_vars = load_vars()
all_messages = whatsapp_chat(project_vars['chat_path'])
from_messages = all_messages[project_vars['from']]
to_messages = all_messages[project_vars['to']]
```

### Line

The line source reads from a Line chat log exported by the iOS Line client. It has not been tested against other clients.

```python
from chatty.sources import line_chat

project_vars = load_vars()
all_messages = line_chat(project_vars['chat_path'])
from_messages = all_messages[project_vars['from']]
to_messages = all_messages[project_vars['to']]
```

# Hacking

All analysis functions are composable and built for reuse. By default, Chatty will analyze messages sent to/from the counter party defined by ```RECIPIENT_ID```. You can change this behavior by redefining ```from_messages``` and ```to_messages``` before the analysis functions are called.

# Todo

* Support other message sources
* Add time series/trend analysis
* PRs welcome

# License

Chatty is released under the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
